Welcome to our guide to Computer Science.
One of the main reasons that
we've created this guide is that
although computers are a big part
of our lives and in the world all around us,
A lot of people don't really understand
what Computer Science is.
I was going to take Computer Science but,
I basically already know how to use Word and Excel.
And it is one of those things that
you don't really notice until it's missing.
For example then you end up with things like
really. Slow. Programs.
Or, incredibly, frustrating, interfaces.
Or, systems, that can't cope with
large amounts of data.
And these days, a business can become
a thousand times bigger overnight.
That's exactly when you need it
to be able to cope with a lot of data.
We'll look at topics like: Computer Security,
to make sure that any personal information
you're holding can't be accessed by hackers;
or Artificial Intelligence,
for planning and decision making;
Computer Graphics, for entertainment
and also visualising large amounts of data;
and Computer Vision, where a computer can sense
objects and even people in the world around it.
We'll look at computer programs that take so long to run
that they won't finish in a lifetime,
even on the fastest computer.
We'll think about what it means for a computer
to be intelligent.
And we'll look at how compression works
so that we can take thousands of songs
and fit them on a device that's
small enough to fit in your pocket.
Computer Science is many things to many people,
and after working through this guide,
you'll have a better idea of what Computer Science is,
and especially how we can use it
to design software that will help people
in their everyday lives.